so you guys want to learn a little bit
of meditation
yeah let's do some meditation I'm gonna
do it let's do it okay
so we'll do the accent or meditation
because it makes it more authentic
okay so
let's do so we will do the nadi shodhana
pranayama
okay so I want you to do this thumb this
is okay put curl down the two fingers
like this
and we will do the nadi shodhana
pranayama which in english is alternate
nostril breathing
you must focus that's why you can focus
I'm going to use it so you must learn to
focus so we are going to do this okay so
I want to take the thumb block the right
nostril and breathe in
switch and breathe out
breathing through the same one
we then
you
switch breathe out
in
switch out
you
you shouldn't be smelling anything okay
so let me just
okay so what you want to do is block one
also breathe in through one switch
breathe out through the other and then
breathe in through the same nostril
switch and breathe out okay so I'm gonna
I'm gonna start demonstrating one yeah
like so you guys need to stop [ __ ]
typing and wall Xing on Twitch at and
actually do it because I mean watching
people meditate isn't gonna do [ __ ] for
you like you have to actually have to
meditate right like that's why we're
here so
yeah so one of your nostrils is going to
be blocked
right and it's okay if you do this you
can do pinky if you need to so one of
your nostrils is going to be more
blocked than the other
that's completely normal if you have a
deviated septum you shouldn't do this
case in point yeah if you have a
deviated septum don't do this practice
so
I'm gonna I'm gonna demonstrate I'm
gonna close my eyes so I want you guys
to make sure you get the rhythm so it's
in switch out in switch out in switch
out in switch out it's not in switch out
switch in switch out you see that that's
the same one every time
so your spine needs to be straight
that's the only important requirement
you can stand or said it doesn't matter
so now we're gonna practice so block the
right nostril
that's okay you get it so G you can just
use the pinky
you
go ahead and finish the round that
you're on
let your eyes remain closed
and just sit with the natural slowing of
your thoughts
you
EAL the slowness of your breath
now put your palms together in front of
you
to rub them together rub rub rub rub rub
rub feel the warmth the friction and
then cut them over your eyes
now I want you to take a deep breath in
and as you exhale
slowly open your eyes
let your hands come down
you
okay
so we'll pick back up I think on Friday
so I'm going to be Co swimming with
Devin Nash on Friday from three to five
Eastern
and okay could you explain what we just
did
yeah okay so I guess I guess we're not
done streaming okay so let me explain a
little bit about meditation so the first
thing is yeah you should let your mind
go wherever it wants to but the whole
goal of switching the fingers is
is that it returns your attention to the
present so as your mind starts to wander
like this is what happens with your mind
your mind has a thought and then you
feed into that thought and it begets
another thought and then the thoughts in
your mind start breeding right and then
soon you have like an infestation of
thoughts and that's what anxiety is like
if you think about people who suffer
from anxiety they worry about one thing
they're like oh my god like I was
walking and like one of my shoes is
muddy and then like what are people
gonna think are they going to think that
I don't know how to dress myself are
they gonna think I'm dirty like one
thought leads to another thought leads
to another thought leads to another
thought and so the thoughts will start
to breed
now thoughts are gonna have a certain
energy or momentum they're kind of like
you know if I if I like roll a tire down
the street like the tire is gonna fall
over at some point but it has some
momentum and if I keep feeding the
thoughts the tire is gonna keep going
and my mind is gonna keep going that's
what happens in anxiety and then the
thoughts become overwhelming when we
meditate the momentum of your thoughts
is still gonna be there but the
advantage of doing a practice like this
is that you have to return to the
present and like you have to pay
attention and every time you pay
attention to switching your breath and
focusing on your breath you stop paying
attention to your thoughts and you start
to stop feeding them so even though a
thought may pop up if you return to the
practice that thought will just drift
away and you'll be back to square one
and the longer you do the practice the
fewer thoughts are gonna pop up and so
the goal of this practice is to enter a
no mind state which is consciousness
without mental activity so we it's like
a hard state of mind to really think
about but it's it's like a very
important
like it's just a really simple principle
which is that you know you you want to
focus your attention on the present and
let the thoughts go and the more you let
the thoughts go the more you're gonna
enter closer to a state of mind where
your consciousness without thinking so
all you are is pure awareness and that's
the growth goal
now people ask me like what does this do
that's the most fundamental thing there
are a lot of there are a lot of specific
attributes to the meditation that I
teach and I can't really go into that
but maybe what we can do is have a have
a stream exclusively about like the
science and theory behind meditation so
we can cover like from a neuroscience
and physiologic perspective like what
does it do to your brain what does it do
to your hormones what does it do to your
cortisol level what does it do to your
adrenaline what does it do to your
sympathetic nervous system and the other
side of that is like what are the Yogi's
in India like say like why do they say
this is good because they started doing
this stuff before we had MRI scanners
and before we had heart rate monitors so
what is their theory behind why this
stuff works so let me just focus on
meditation for a second so you want to
do this for 3 to 5 minutes at a time and
then you ideally want to do it every day
but let's start with 3 to 5 minutes a
day for 3 days a week and how do you
keep track of time so there - what you
can set a timer if you want to but the
other thing that you can do is just do
it until you're done doing it which I
know sounds weird but you just start the
practice you can count like a certain
number of breaths like you can do nine
breaths or 18 breaths or just like do it
until you're done and I know that sounds
weird but you'll be surprised you'll
know when you're done for the day and
that's ok don't be judgmental for
yourself just just focus on on doing it